[Concept Entry] general: Machine Learning (#6075)
Codecademy/docs: content/general/concepts/machine-learning/machine-learning.md

---
Title: 'Machine Learning'
Description: 'Machine learning is a branch of artificial intelligence that enables systems to learn from data and make predictions or decisions without explicit programming.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Machine Learning'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Algorithms'
  - 'Machine Learning'
CatalogContent:
  - 'paths/computer-science'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

> **Machine learning (ML)** is a branch of artificial intelligence (AI) that allows computers to analyze data, identify patterns, and make decisions without explicit programming. Instead of following hard-coded rules, ML algorithms identify patterns in data and improve their performance over time. This ability makes ML essential in applications such as recommendation systems, fraud detection, natural language processing, and self-driving cars.

Reviewer: Add doc link for AI.

```suggestion
**Machine learning (ML)** is a branch of [Artificial Intelligence (AI)](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/ai) that allows computers to analyze data, identify patterns, and make decisions without explicit programming. Instead of following hard-coded rules, ML algorithms identify patterns in data and improve their performance over time. This ability makes ML essential in applications such as recommendation systems, fraud detection, natural language processing, and self-driving cars.
```

The growing availability of large datasets, computational power, and advanced algorithms has fueled the rapid evolution of ML. Businesses and researchers use ML to automate tasks, enhance decision-making, and drive innovation across industries. By leveraging different types of learning techniques, such as supervised, unsupervised, and reinforcement learning, ML models can solve complex problems and generate accurate predictions.

## Types of Machine Learning

Machine learning is broadly categorized into three types based on how models learn from data:

> 1. **Supervised Learning**: In supervised learning, models are trained on labeled datasets, meaning the input data is paired with the correct output. The algorithm learns to map inputs to the desired outputs using examples. Common applications include spam detection, image classification, and speech recognition. Examples of supervised learning algorithms include linear regression, decision trees, and support vector machines (SVMs).

Reviewer: This can be simplified as following -

```suggestion
1. **Supervised Learning**: In supervised learning, models learn from labeled datasets, where each input is paired with a known output. The algorithm maps inputs to outputs based on training examples. 
	- **Applications**: Spam detection, image classification, speech recognition.
	- **Algorithms**: Linear regression, decision trees, support vector machines (SVMs), neural networks.
```

> 2. **Unsupervised Learning**: Unsupervised learning involves training models on unlabeled data, meaning the algorithm must find patterns and relationships in the data without predefined outputs. This type of learning is useful for clustering, anomaly detection, and data compression. Examples include k-means clustering and principal component analysis (PCA).

Reviewer: This can be simplified like this - 

```suggestion
2. **Unsupervised Learning**: In unsupervised learning, models analyze unlabeled data and detect patterns without predefined categories. It is used for clustering, anomaly detection, and dimensionality reduction. 
	- **Applications**: Customer segmentation, anomaly detection, data compression.
	- **Algorithms**: K-means clustering, hierarchical clustering, Principal Component Analysis (PCA) (for dimensionality reduction).
```

> 3. **Reinforcement Learning**: In reinforcement learning, an agent learns by interacting with an environment and receiving rewards or penalties for its actions. This trial-and-error approach is widely used in robotics, game playing (such as AlphaGo), and autonomous systems. Reinforcement learning algorithms include Q-learning and deep Q-networks (DQN).

Reviewer: This can be simplified as - 

```suggestion
3. **Reinforcement Learning**: In reinforcement learning, an agent interacts with an environment and learns optimal actions by maximizing cumulative rewards.
	- **Applications**: Robotics, game playing (e.g., AlphaGo), self-driving cars.
	- **Algorithms**: Q-learning, Deep Q-Networks (DQN), Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO).
```
